Journal [[FileSystem]] :

Ext2fs is a traditional filesystem. Although it’s a good performer, it suffers from a major limitation: after a power failure, a system crash, or another uncontrolled shutdown, the filesystem could be in an inconsistent state. The only way to mount the filesystem safely so that you’re sure its data structures are valid is to perform a full disk check on it. This task is usually handled automatically when the system boots, but it takes time—probably several minutes, or perhaps more than an hour on a large filesystem or if the computer has many smaller fiesystems. The solution to this problem is to change to a journaling filesystem.

 Such a filesystem maintains a journal, which is a data structure that describes pending operations. Prior to writing data to the disk’s main data structures, Linux describes what it’s about to do in the journal. When the operations are complete, their entries are removed from the journal. Thus, at any given moment, the journal should contain a list of disk structures that might be undergoing modification. The result is that, in the event of a crash or power failure, the system can examine the journal and check only those data structures described within it. If inconsistencies are found, the system can roll back or complete the changes, returning the disk to a consistent state without checking every data structure in the filesystem. This greatly speeds the disk-check process after power failures and system crashes. Today, journaling filesystems are the standard for most Linux disk partitions. Very small partitions (such as a separate /boot partition, if you use one) and small removable disks (such as USB sticks) often lack journals, though. 
 
 Five journaling filesystems are common on Linux: ext3fs, ext4fs, ReiserFS, XFS, and JFS. Of these, the last three require little in the way of journal configuration. Ext3fs is a bit different; it’s basically just ext2fs with a journal added. This fact means you can add a journal to an ext2 filesystem, converting it into an ext3 filesystem. Ext4fs is a further enhancement of this filesystem family.